did you know that North Korea made a
clone console of the Nintendo Wii and
did you know ladies and gentlemen that
we got
[Applause]
him wait what is Unos and why is
everything in Chinese instead of Korean
Dancing with the Stars Frozen NBA
actually that last one kind of makes
sense but the rest of this is very
confusing what exactly makes this
console North Korean are North Korean
games unique or are they just same same
but different what I know is unique is
the segue to our sponsor hetner hetner
offers gdpr compliant high performance
Cloud servers which consists of OnDemand
cloud computing platforms and apis on a
metered pay as you go basis don't miss
out and use code lt24 at the link down
below to get €20
off North Korea might not immediately
spring to mind when you think of gaming
or even technology for that matter but
the hermit Kingdom surprisingly has a
fair bit of history in the space in 2012
British travel company Coro tours
commissioned nootch information
technology to make a game to promote
their packages of tours of the dprk the
result was a title called Pyongyang
racer a flash game that plays a little
bit like Crazy Taxi if there were no
people no money and barely any cars on
the road you basically collect barrels
of oil and try not to crash that's it
that's the whole game pongyang racer
time let's go game rules do not hit cars
or Vans if you hit 10 Vehicles you will
be stopped for bad driving are you
kidding
me huh am I supposed to be able to tell
where the people that I'm supposed to
pick
up what if you drive on the grass you
immediately die okay what what is this I
collected a barrel of oil okay what if I
hit a car are these other cars even
moving are they just stationary on the
road it's like the only purpose of this
game is to reinforce that you better
stay in line or the experience is over
do you pick people up I don't even
understand what's happening right now
drive straight on don't stare at me I'm
on duty well where is she am I supposed
to pick her
up I can't even approach a driveway is
that because that build is like a
building people are not allowed to go to
or what yeah this is enough weirdness
for me I think I expected to play a lot
more but I think I'm done here it's
creepy it's kind of like that footage we
saw recently of North Korea there's no
traffic lights there's no other cars on
the road you're just by yourself in a
weird Stepford Wives two perfect City
despite what Wikipedia might say that is
not the first and last of North Korea or
even nootch games in 20 2007 they were
contracted by rert Murdoch's news Corp
to assist in the production of java
based flip phone games the big Labowski
bowling and Menin black alien assault
they're also rumored to have worked on a
Wii game of some sort shortly afterward
though we don't know for sure if it was
for an actual Nintendo console or if it
was more like this first up then is
bowling which oh okay it's meant to be
oriented this way when you navigate the
menu there's no crowds cheering since
not your decadent capitalist bowling
wait do I get to yeah it's got to go
through it's everything in this has
unskippable cut scenes I can't explain
why got it we only got one remote
working so unfortunately Tanner can't
join me oh okay I can be either of these
mes I love the frame rate on everything
in this what is that like 18 frames per
second oh if you're lucky this really is
just an outright clone
of of Wee bowling isn't it pretty much
wow and the physics is just as good
which is not a compliment oh wow they
give you a zoomed in view you basically
can't miss so you know how you say you
basically can't miss yeah on this next
shot I want you to do something a little
different okay I want you to move your
character all the way over to the right
and when you throw the ball I want you
to hook far to your left okay wait
that's as far as I can go yep uh okay
now hook far to the
left and that's a strike every time oh I
wi
this will get you right on your way to
the perfect game of 270
points um you mean 300 oh 270 you do not
get those extra two balls in the 10th
Frame do they not have bowling in North
Korea like they don't know how the rules
work or what the only place that you can
really find a lot of video games in
North Korea is the bowling alley
ironically uh okay I'm actually a little
surprised at how not that bad it is yeah
a lot of it is look at that it had that
disco bowling lighting effects and
everything overall the games lack maybe
a little bit of Polish but they're not
what you'd consider to be complete an
utter shovel wear every time they're
getting close but I want to try the
badminton game yeah go for it okay this
looks like it could be fun oh it's
really too bad we didn't get the second
controller working do we have a second
controller but it just we have a second
controller the dongle got lost in my
pile of dongles at some point and I
think fell off the table oh okay it's
really
disappointing okay the um presses are
very much just
suggestions yeah why am I hitting it to
the back right every time
stop oh my God how about anywhere other
than there please oh For the Love of All
that is good there is no strategy here
whatsoever as far as I can tell that is
the case with a lot of these games if if
you're dependent on the gyro it's going
to let you
down this would be exhausting to play
again with a little bit more polish this
could actually be fun somebody put some
work into this yeah I may or may not
have used a number of work hours playing
this it's fun it really is you tried the
badminton one specifically this was the
first game I played because it's
badminton and I know what company I work
for it's actually fun whoa
oh okay it has Mouse pointer support in
like their fake Wii yeah that's actually
not bad and this one doesn't require
that you have I an IR bar so cuz it's
just purely gyro yeah exactly oh my God
that yoga game who is that flexible
where are her hips the one leg looks
like it's coming out of the other leg oh
my god oh it's really too bad we didn't
get the dance mat with this yeah I would
not want to play Twister with her so the
only thing we can say for sure is that
we don't know for sure what games North
Koreans have or haven't worked on
sanctions against the country mean that
Services purchased from them are often
brokered through middlemen or even
entire middle companies in places like
China or Hong Kong and in some
Industries these workarounds are a
particularly Open Secret pyongyang's
animation Powerhouse Studio has been
around since 1957 is estimated to have
900 employees and has worked on French
animated series like the ranch Spain's
cursed Titanic movie Stanley's Mighty 7
and even The Simpsons Movie they're even
rumored to have worked on some Disney
films like The Lion King which could
explain this scene where the Dust In The
Sky appears to spell s k yes I'm
choosing to believe it's a if I'm going
to have a conspiracy theory it's going
to be the deepest one with all that said
the games on this version of this
console probably didn't come from North
Korea in the initial 2019 news release
about the Moren bong game console posted
on this recently defunct propaganda news
Outlet the logo on the front doesn't
quite match up to what we got that's in
Korean this is in Chinese though if you
kind of cross your eyes a little bit and
try to make out what the pixels are the
Korean seems to roughly match up with
the hul for Mor bong while the Chinese
logo here reads Xiao Wang better known
outside of China as subar oh I know
subar that's right they made that z+
console that we reviewed back in 2019
and outside of that they actually have a
fairly storied past they began producing
famicom clones in the early 1990s and
within a few years they were the most
popular famic clone brand in China and
the second most popular in Russia with a
contract to manufacture Russia's most
popular famic con console the dendi they
also had a pretty recognizable spokesman
Jackie Chan who I will be channeling in
this next
segment wait does it use the camera it
does why would it even need that if it's
got a gyro well because it shows you on
the screen and then you can be in the
game no yeah okay I guess you don't even
need this but here you
go this is such a high quality camera
what just happened I think we might have
accidentally selected
something um
uh wait oh wait I don't even need the
controller then no oh okay you you can
hit the multiple times by the way oh
really oh
sick you know it works surprisingly
okayish yeah now imagine if the camera
were better on this yeah if it wasn't
like 15 frames per second that's
actually kind of a cool game it's like
if the connect was a piece of sh as
opposed to what
got him this would actually be really
fun with a competitive mode like I I
would I would play this I'd play this
with my kids oh that's interesting if
you look closely at the oranges you can
actually see where the model is glued
together oh yeah at
that oh actually that one too it looks I
think we can see it on all of them so
yeah three sections on each one okay we
lost coming back to sar's role in all of
this it's not the logo on the front that
makes a console it's the software and
subar has their hands in that as well
have you ever used one of those consoles
with the 500 in1 Game cartridges only to
discover that they're filled with weird
dakes re Sprites or sequels to games
that have no business existing well that
probably came from subar frequent
collaborator and possible parent company
Ying since 1993 Ying science and
technology company has produced such
legally dubious titles as super contra 7
tunnel Warfare and Pokemon Gold ish a
fun fact by the way in 2001 they were
involved in a copyright infringement
lawsuit as the plaintiff and one oh
China you're so silly anyway sometime in
the late 2000s they ditched the famicom
to focus primarily on making games for
subar various wi clones what exactly are
these wi clones LTD screwdriver drum
roll
please wow and and congratulations if
you guessed old Android TV box with a
camera you win the circuit board
printing suggests it was manufactured in
May of 2014 it uses a rock chip
processor 512 Megs of ram 8 gigs of
storage and well it's about as simple as
any old Android TV box and like most
Android TV boxes it runs Android or at
least sort of it does unun OS was the
original name for alios alibaba's
version of Android and as for the games
well why don't we try comparing some
Ying titles to the games that eventually
found their way into North Korea this
game is interesting okay this is the
correct version of table tennis that we
want this red court is seen in one of
the ads that was posted to Ari rang Miri
for the North Korean Wei so this is a
game that would have theoretically gone
to North
Korea uh it's a tutorial right off the
bat everything is unskippable
wow that controller is not the same as
my controller they did have a couple oh
wao that's a wi controller with one
button no no that's not a Wii controller
there's still four buttons down in the
bottom yeah so it's somewhere in between
cuz it's got the d-pad markings on it
but it's only got a single button here
so it could be that that is an early
mockup or it could be one of the
varieties of this that subar released
because they did have a number of them
on the market sorry are I'm
good get in the
game sorry it's a skill issue so
basically all this thing has in it is
just an accelerometer and like no gyro I
guess just are you moving it great okay
then only the game the actual device
does this is essentially an air
mouse you can take the dongle from this
and plug it into a computer and it will
be detected as a standard hit device you
can immediately start using it as an air
mouse so if you wanted to use this with
a Wii Emulator you absolutely could oh
that's super cool there's concrete
evidence then that Ying made at least
some of the games that were promoted in
advertisements for our North Korean Wii
here table tennis for sure is a match
the rest are not so clear this next
image appears to show some kind of
running game on a mat we're not sure
which one or if it's a real game at all
we do subar did sell several dance mats
that pair with their we clones from a
company called blavor but this looks
less like a game peripheral and more
like a solar panel on the floor which
kind of checks out given what blavor is
up to these days um it is possible
though that it's real and it was just
designed so simply to allow for assembly
within a North Korean Factory something
that Pyongyang has been doing with
Android phones for over a decade the
final image from arang Mii is maybe the
most ambiguous but also the most
interesting it prominently announces
educational kids games with a number of
examples and of the 20 pixels that are
not obscured by The Watermark we can
make out two big Clues the first is this
raccoon dog looking character that
appears to be interacting with a piece
of paper on the ground this is likely
neoguri the main character of clever
raccoon dog one of North Korea's most
popular cartoons If This Were a device
solely made for children clever raccoon
dog might be the extent of the local
cartoon properties used but two space is
over we can see what very much looks
like the lead character of the much more
dark and gritty series The Boy General
North Korea has three very popular
cartoons in its history and if two out
of three are featured it's a safe
assumption that there were plans for a
game based around the dark gritty War
drama squirrel and Hedgehog top of a few
murky details about a squirrel and
Hedgehog mobile game from 2018 called
Brave Soldier there have been some
photos posted to the fandom Wiki
depicting gameplay and Pitch meetings
for rail gun shooter arcade game
supposedly for use in the golden Lane
Bowling Alley attached to the Yang gako
Hotel the primary hotel that foreign
tourists tend to get placed in but why
make a one-off arcade machine of your
most popular series only to show it to
foreigners who might confuse it for a
Sonic the Hedgehog knockoff which by the
way it isn't in fact squirrel and
Hedgehog predate Sonic by well over a
decade a fact that makes more sense when
you have the context of North Korea's
media industry between the late 1960s
and the 1980s Kim Jong eel's first major
role in the dprk government was creating
film and television for use's propaganda
he famously kidnapped South Korean
actress Choy Yuni and her husband
director Shin sang A for eight years in
order to make this happen but when he
wasn't using human trafficking victims
to make anti-japanese shame pieces he
pushed for a variety of cartoons to be
created almost all of them involving
talking animals making Kim Jong ill
effectively then history's most despotic
furry in the Years following his death
production of these cartoons slowed
significantly where they used to produce
one to two episodes a year squirrel and
Hedgehog hasn't seen a new episode enter
production since Kim jong-il's death and
there's been virtually no new or
continued Productions of SEC properties
in that time as far as we know the only
exception to this seems to have been Kim
jong-un's favorite show the boy general
which got a reboot in 2015 nearly 20
years after originally going off the air
the reboot lasted 50 episodes and
concluded in 2019 right around the time
this wi clone was announced see we got
there eventually let's try another game
all right there were a couple other ones
that caught my eye I thought I saw a
curling game yep let's see if there's
actual differences in how hard you go
cuz this would be the first game that
managed to like that's not a bad little
like Village thing they made If This
Were paired with wonderful gameplay all
of this would be easily forgiven I
noticed the word if there every one of
these games has a little caveat to it
okay all right let's part of the Journey
of Discovery all right okay so I hold
the D
button
short what just happened uh push push do
that and now it's going to go all the
way down you can actually see on the
right side that's going to tell you how
far that shot is going to go and if you
wave back and forth It's it'll sweep and
normally that will will actually uh fill
up a little bit more oh I
see okay I haven't figured out how to
get it to properly curl yeah but I know
that you can at least go over to this
left and right like you wouldn't bowling
okay well that was a bad shot I I going
to put it right on the button no no
they're going to completely Miss just
like me okay well hey at least we both
suck see it filling up filling up push
forward I overshot it again didn't I
damn it hey you're still in the area you
can't tell from the physics at all like
it's it's not slowing down dude it just
moves at a constant rate like that looks
like it I keep thinking oh it's almost
slowed down oh wow it just lands exactly
where you get it see I thought it'd be
like we golf where it like goes to there
but then there's some fudge Factor but
no it's just just press it right when
the thing all we've got is four more
minutes left why don't we get out of
this game and I believe it's I believe
it's darts I I want to show darts
unskippable cut scene okay now hold on
just to gosh Dar oh oh okay so you just
so you just have to get it in the right
spot and
then what just happened well there's
gravity so you're aing what's the point
of the freaking Target then well I don't
know there
then o that was actually really close
yeah that that was much closer than I
got it yesterday and then it well leaves
my thing in the same spot so
theoretically I could
just what was that too hard dude not
cool it it gets more frustrating though
because you're playing 500 right yeah
and even if you get the exact correct
amount of points it'll still tell you
you're wrong I could not get this game
to
finish coming back to our wordy history
lesson that I assure you does have a
point in January 2020 all the borders of
North Korea closed and in the past four
years no one has legally come in or out
not even Dennis Rodman the US Treasury
has begun imposing sanctions on
companies found to be working with North
Korea even for animation and at the
start of 2024 Kim Jong-un began shutting
down radio stations TV broadcasts and
websites that served as a link between
the dprk and the rest of the world he
made the unprecedented statement that a
unified Korea would be impossible so
whether the North Korean version of this
console ever got made or whether our
title is total clickbait may never be
known instead with willingness to
Outsource it work to North Korea at an
all-time low it appears that whatever
sector workers might have worked on this
or in the past worked on wh hat IT
services have shifted to botnet creation
and ransomware taxs on hospitals for
Bitcoin as for subar unfortunately both
they and whing seem to have succumbed to
the pandemic subor is adamant that they
are not dead yet but Ying's website s it
is essentially gone with only a file
server remaining that hosts all of their
software dated up until 2016 and a bunch
of ROMs oh wait and what's this file no
way it's a bootleg segue to our sponsor
back Blaze back Blaze is an affordable
and easy to ous Cloud backup solution
that starts at just $9 a month they make
it simple by allowing you to back up
almost anything from your Mac or PC and
access it anywhere in the world with
their web and mobile apps you can also
easily protect business data through a
centrally managed admin and an
Enterprise control add-on and when it
comes time to restore your data which um
hopefully won't happen you can do so
either over the web or even by mail they
will ship hard drive with your data
right to your door and when you're done
you just return the hard drive for a
refund plus if you're worried about fat
fingering and accidentally deleting
files you can increase your retention
history to one year for free with over
55 billion files restored and three
exabytes of data under their management
back Blaze has got you covered they've
actually even got us covered we back up
our servers to back Blaze nightly so
sign up and get a 15-day free trial with
no credit card required today at back
blaze.com
LT if you guys enjoyed this video why
not check out the all China PC where we
briefly look at how Corsair power
supplies keep ending up in North Korea